add k3s cluster setup doc (#427)
cdr/docs: setup/kubernetes/k3s.md

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please make sure that you have the following:

1. **Ubuntu 20.04 machine**: This can be a bare metal or virtual machine. For
   cloud compute, AWS EC2, GCP Compute Engine, Azure VMs, Vultr, DigitalOcean
   work well. Make sure the machine specs satisfies Coder's
   [resource requirements](../requirements.md)
1. Network policy or firewall accepting incoming traffic on ports 22 (SSH), 80
   (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), 5349 (Networking v2 / TURN), and 8443 (Kubernetes API).
1. The following software installed on the machine:
   - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
   - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

### Resource allocation and performance

Your experience with Coder is dependent on your system specs. See our
[resource requirements](../requirements.md) for more details.

## Change the default SSH port

If you want to allow
[SSH into workspaces](https://coder.com/docs/coder/v1.20/workspaces/ssh), you
will need to change the host's default SSH port to free up port 22. You may also
need to modify your firewall to accept incoming traffic from the alternative

> port (e.g 5522)

Reviewer: Does `alternative port` refer to the port you just renamed? So if you rename the default Port 22 to Port 5522, then you need to add 5522 to the firewall?

Author: yes :)

[Follow this guide](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-change-ssh-port-in-linux/)
by Linuxize if you do not know how to do this.

## Install k3s with Calico

The following uses
[Calico's quickstart guide](https://docs.projectcalico.org/getting-started/kubernetes/k3s/quickstart)
to set up K3s. We will be disabling the default network policies and Traefik in

> favor of Calico and nginx-ingress.

Reviewer: I'm not clear on which default network policies -- K3s network policies?

Author: yes I think describing them as "k3s network policies" is most accurate.

---
title: "K3s"
description: Set up K3s on an Ubuntu machine to deploy Coder.
---

This article will show you how to install K3s onto a new Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
machine for use with Coder.

[K3s](https://k3s.io/) is a lightweight Kubernetes distribution that works well
for single-node or multi-node clusters. This guide covers the installation

> of K3s onto a new Ubuntu 20.04 LTS machine, but if you want to install Coder on

Reviewer 2: > This doc is currently Ubuntu-specific, but for no particular reason other than "it works." Should I test on some other operating systems or better describe requirements? The goal by mentioning the OS is that this works best on a new machine.

@bpmct I think this is fine, as long as we are explicit about what the guide covers, then we set the expectation with readers that we've tested with a fresh installation of Ubuntu 20.04. I don't think anyone can expect that we test on every possible OS and configuration, and stating the version we used to test here makes clear that this is the version someone would have to use in order to have the highest probability of success with this guide.

Author: Great, thanks :)

> a local machine or an existing host, [Kind](./kind.md) or [k3d](https://k3d.io/)

Reviewer 2: It's unfortunate that there aren't longer descriptions for `kind` or `k3d`, because very short text links like this can be hard to click on mobile devices. Also, it seems that kind is now stylized in all lowercase (at one point it was KinD for kubernetes-in-docker, but maybe they're moving away from a name like that, now that they have podman support)

Author: I changed to `kind cluster` and `k3d cluster` so it's easier to navigate on mobile. I also added a "why" these would be a better choice.

are better choices.

> This installation method is not officially supported or tested by Coder. If
> you have questions or run into issues, feel free to reach out using our
> [community Slack channel](https://cdr.co/join-community).
>
> **We do not recommend using K3s for production deployments of Coder.**

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please make sure that:

1. You have an **Ubuntu 20.04 machine**: This can be a bare metal or a virtual

>    machine. AWS EC2, GCP Compute Engine, Azure VMs, Vultr,

Reviewer 2: Is the second sentence referencing the various clouds really necessary here? Seems like as long as it's Ubuntu 20.04, everything should be good, right?

Author: Yeah, this can be removed.

   and DigitalOcean all offer options that work well for cloud computing.

   Ensure that the machine's specs satisfy
   Coder's [resource requirements](../requirements.md), since your experience
   with Coder is dependent on your system specs.

1. You have the following software installed on your machine:
   - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
   - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

1. Your network policy or firewall accepts incoming traffic on:
   - Port 22 (SSH)
   - Port 80 (HTTP)
   - Port 443 (HTTPS)

>    - Port 5349 (Networking v2 / TURN)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Port 5349 (TURNS)
```

   - **Optional**: Port 8443 (Kubernetes API)

## Step 1: Change the default SSH port

To allow [SSH into

> workspaces](https://coder.com/docs/coder/v1.20/workspaces/ssh), you must change

Reviewer 2: Seems like this should be a relative link rather than an absolute link

> This installation method is not officially supported or tested by Coder. If
> you have questions or run into issues, feel free to reach out using our
> [community Slack channel](https://cdr.co/join-community).
>
> **We do not recommend using K3s for production deployments of Coder.**

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please make sure that:

1. You have an **Ubuntu 20.04 machine**: This can be a bare metal or a virtual
   machine.

   Ensure that the machine's specs satisfy Coder's
   [resource requirements](../requirements.md), since your experience with Coder
   is dependent on your system specs.

1. You have the following software installed on your machine:

   - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
   - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

1. Your network policy or firewall accepts incoming traffic on:
   - Port 22 (SSH)
   - Port 80 (HTTP)
   - Port 443 (HTTPS)
   - Port 5349 (TURNS)
   - **Optional**: Port 8443 (Kubernetes API)

## Step 1: Change the default SSH port

If you enable Networking v2 after installing Coder (in
`Manage > Admin > Infrastructure`), this step is not necessary to SSH into

> workspaces, as TURNS is used instead.

Author: @deansheather added a note :)

I noticed that networking v2 is not mentioned anywhere else in docs so I specifically referenced how this can be done.

---
title: "k3s"
description: Set up a Coder deployment with a Ubuntu + k3s
---

> k3s is a lightweight Kubernetes distribution that works well for single-node or

Reviewer 2: This is a great contribution, thank you!

I think we should indicate that k3s is not officially supported by Coder at this time, or make it part of our supported/tested configurations. What do you think?

Author: I am happy to add a note it not officially supported, but don't want to discourage bug reports in the Slack, so I might even link to it for "community support."

However, I personally think this is something we should consider supporting/testing depending on usage we see from the guide. I will also be sure to dogfood with it.

Author: I added a disclaimer✅

or multi-node clusters alike.

> This guide only covers installation on a new Ubuntu 20.04 LTS machine. If you
> are looking to install on a local machine or an existing host,
> [Kind](./kind.md) or k3d may be a better choice.

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please make sure that you have the following:

1. **Ubuntu 20.04 machine**: This can be a bare metal or virtual machine. For
   cloud compute, AWS EC2, GCP Compute Engine, Azure VMs, Vultr, or DigitalOcean

>    all work. Make sure the machine specs satisfies Coder's

Author: "all work" isn't great wording, but I think it is important to mention that cloud providers work well in this case

   [resource requirements](../requirements.md)

> 1. Network policy exposting ports 22, 80, 443, and 5522 (alternative SSH port)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Network policy or firewall accepting incoming traffic on ports 22, 80, 443, and 5522 (alternative SSH port)
```

Reviewer 3: You should only list the ports that coder requires here, so I wouldn't list 5522 (but make sure to note the firewall thing where you say the host ssh port needs to be changed)

Author: 👍🏼

1. The following software installed on the machine:
   - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
   - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

### Resource allocation and performance

Your experience with Coder is dependent on your system specs. See our
[resource requirements](../requirements.md) for more details.

## Change the default SSH port

If you want to allow
[SSH into workspaces](https://coder.com/docs/coder/v1.20/workspaces/ssh), you
will need to change the host's default SSH port to free up port 22.

[Follow this guide](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-change-ssh-port-in-linux/)
by Linuxize if you do not know how to do this.

## Install k3s with Calico

1. Create a single-node k3s cluster

   ```console

>    curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | K3S_KUBECONFIG_MODE="644" INSTALL_K3S_EXEC="--flannel-backend=none --cluster-cidr=192.168.0.0/16 --disable-network-policy --disable=traefik" sh -

Reviewer 3: You should explain why we need all of these flags

   ```

> 1. Install the Calico operator and CRDs

Reviewer 3: Should explain why and what this does

   ```console
   kubectl create -f https://docs projectcalico.org/manifests tigera-operator.yaml

   kubectl create -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/manifests/custom-resources.yaml
   ```

1. Confirm all of the pods are running

   ```console
   watch kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
   ```

See the
[Calico docs](https://docs.projectcalico.org/getting-started/kubernetes/k3s/quickstart)
for a more detailed tutorial and troubleshooting info.

> ## Allow IP Forwarding

Reviewer 3: Why?

Author: why for Calico docs or IP forwarding? I can add both.

For context, all of the above commands were taken from that projectcalico guide. I do think it's worth keeping the commands in versus simply pointing people to the guide, but agree that adding a "why" is good.

Modify Calico so that IP forwarding is allowed in the container_settings
section.

Edit the value in the following places:

```console
vim /etc/cni/net.d/10-canal.conflist

kubectl edit cm cni-config -n calico-system
```

```json
"container_settings": {
   "allow_ip_forwarding": true
}
```

### Ensure `$KUBECONFIG` is defined

Sometimes helm will not properly recognize the k3s cluster
(k3s-io/[k3s#1126](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/issues/1126)). To resolve this,

> add the following to your `~/.bashrc`:

Reviewer 3: I don't think we should do this, otherwise people will have problems if they try to update kubeconfig or if it's unreadable.

Instead we could recommend copying it to `~/.kube/config`

Author: 👍🏼

of K3s onto a new Ubuntu 20.04 LTS machine, but if you want to install Coder on
a local machine or an existing host, [Kind](./kind.md) or [k3d](https://k3d.io/)
are better choices.

> This installation method is not officially supported or tested by Coder. If
> you have questions or run into issues, feel free to reach out using our
> [community Slack channel](https://cdr.co/join-community).

## Prerequisites

Before proceeding, please make sure that:

1. You have an **Ubuntu 20.04 machine**: This can be a bare metal or a virtual
   machine. For cloud compute, AWS EC2, GCP Compute Engine, Azure VMs, Vultr,
   and DigitalOcean all work well.

   Ensure that the machine's specs satisfies
   Coder's [resource requirements](../requirements.md), since your experience
   with Coder is dependent on your system specs.

1. You have the following software installed on your machine:
   - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
   - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

1. Your network policy or firewall accepts incoming traffic on ports 22 (SSH),
   80 (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), 5349 (Networking v2 / TURN), and 8443 (Kubernetes

>    API).

Reviewer 3: I don't think Kubernetes API needs to be exposed, you could mark it as optional if you want.

## Step 1: Change the default SSH port

To allow [SSH into
workspaces](https://coder.com/docs/coder/v1.20/workspaces/ssh), you must change
the host's default SSH port to free up port 22. You may also need to modify your
firewall to accept incoming traffic from the alternative port (e.g 5522).

> If you don't know how to change the SSH port in Linux, please review this

> > [guide from Linuxize](https://linuxize.com/post/how-to-change-ssh-port-in-linux/)

Reviewer 3: Should mark this as optional if you're going to be using net v2

Reviewer: I went to add brief info about networking v2 for the user, and it appears that we've removed the option from the UI? Should we leave as-is until this feature is out of alpha, then update the doc with a caveat?

Author: ![Screen Shot 2021-06-28 at 10 53 47 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22407953/123657841-2d34cf00-d7ff-11eb-87ce-b058ab5392b7.png)

1.20 has the networking v2 option under Manage > Admin > Infrastructre. In 1.21 this will likely be in the workspace providers section

## Step 2: Install K3s with Calico

The following steps are based on [Calico's quickstart
guide](https://docs.projectcalico.org/getting-started/kubernetes/k3s/quickstart)
for setting up K3s. However, you will disable the default network policies and
Traefik in favor of Calico and nginx-ingress.

1. Create a single-node K3s cluster:

   ```console

>    curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | K3S_KUBECONFIG_MODE="644" INSTALL_K3S_EXEC="--flannel-backend=none --cluster-cidr=192.168.0.0/16 --disable-network-policy --dis55able=traefik" sh -

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | K3S_KUBECONFIG_MODE="644" INSTALL_K3S_EXEC="--flannel-backend=none --cluster-cidr=192.168.0.0/16 --disable-network-policy --disable=traefik" sh -
```

   ```

   > Per the
   > [Calico docs](https://docs.projectcalico.org/getting-started/kubernetes/k3s/quickstart):
   >
   > If 192.168.0.0/16 is already in use within your network you must select a
   > different pod network CIDR by replacing 192.168.0.0/16 in the above
   > command.
   >

>    > K3s installer generates kubeconfig file in etc directory with limited

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   > K3s installer generates kubeconfig file in `/etc` with limited
```

   > permissions, using K3S_KUBECONFIG_MODE environment you are assigning
   > necessary permissions to the file and make it accessible for other users.

> 1. Install the Calico operator and CRDs (Calico is used to implement network
>    segmentation and tenant isolation):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Install the Calico operator and CRDs (Calico implements Kubernetes pod networking and policy enforcement):
```

   ```console
   kubectl create -f https://docs projectcalico.org/manifests tigera-operator.yaml

   kubectl create -f https://docs.projectcalico.org/manifests/custom-resources.yaml
   ```

1. Confirm that all of the pods are running:

   ```console
   watch kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
   ```

## Step 3: Allow IP Forwarding

Modify Calico to enable IP forwarding, which is needed for container networking.

```console
vim /etc/cni/net.d/10-canal.conflist

kubectl edit cm cni-config -n calico-system
```

Under `container_settings`, set `allow_ip_forwarding` to `true`:

```json
"container_settings": {
   "allow_ip_forwarding": true
}
```

## Step 4: Copy over the kubeconfig

Occasionally, Helm will not recognize the K3s cluster
(see k3s-io/[k3s#1126](https://github.com/k3s-io/k3s/issues/1126) for more information).

> If this happens, but you want to interface with the cluster from your local
> machine, copy `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` to `~/.kube/config` on your local
> machine. Ensure that you replace
> `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` with the host's public IP address:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If this happens, but you want to interface with the cluster from your local
machine, copy `/etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml` to `~/.kube/config`.

If you copy this file from the K3s node to your local workstation, ensure that you replace `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` with the host's public IP address in the copied file, and make sure port `8443` is permitted through your firewall.
```
